what drives people to war with
themselves
is the suspicion or the knowledge that
they consist of two persons
in opposition to one another the
conflict may be
between the sensual and the spiritual
man or between the ego
and the shadow carl
jung swiss psychiatrist carl jung
observed that whatever we were pressing
ourselves keeps influencing our behavior
and because for the greatest part we
aren't aware
of what's lurking in the dark we don't
know about the mechanisms
running in the background of our psyche
there are things about us
that are easy to accept especially
things we proudly use
to fill up our egos with and these are
probably characteristics
that our direct environment has
classified as
desirable but if we take a peek behind
the masks we wear
we find stuff that we don't easily
flaunt with
we might show these elements sparingly
to some people
but in many cases this part of the ego
is off limits
to anyone but ourselves however
if we would delve deeper we arrive in a
psychological structure
beyond the limits of our consciousness
the shadow
the inner civil war takes place when
there's a conflict
between who we think we are and the
characteristics of ourselves
that we aren't aware of but are
nonetheless active
behind the curtain living autonomously
and influencing our behavior
without our knowledge or consent
this video explores the inner civil war
and how to end it
[Music]
the novel and movie fight club tells the
story
about a young man known as the narrator
the narrator works a dead and office job
and has a nice apartment
full of ikea furniture in order to be
the docile harmless fellowee seems to be
many unwanted characteristics have been
hidden in a place that they can't
consciously reach
things like the ability for violence
confrontation
doing illegal stuff and enjoying a wild
night with a woman named
marla singer but dennis unconscious
takes control personified by tyler
durden who basically represents
what he swept under the carpet tyler
appears as a friend at first
but when the story progresses the
narrator discovers
that he and tyler are one and the same
person
tyler is his shadow taking over making
him do things that he would normally
never do
many people are surprised by what evil
they are capable of
[Music]
we see this with the character walter
white in the series
breaking bad a man working as an
overqualified high school chemistry
teacher
at the age of 50. in the beginning of
the series
walter white can be described as a timid
droopy man that wouldn't hurt a fly
he often gets mocked by his
brother-in-law hank schrader
a typical macho alpha male policeman and
it's quite clear
that his son and wife as well as his
students don't respect him
but when he's diagnosed with cancer
repressed personality traits come to the
surface
as his outlook on life shifts slowly but
surely he turns into a criminal
which he justifies by the idea that his
activities are necessary to support his
family financially
after his death in the criminal
underworld
walter white becomes increasingly
notorious and goes by the name
heisenberg known as a cold-blooded
kingpin
in the local drug trade now nobody in
his environment
including himself would have expected
that walter white would have been able
to do what he did
it was a typical case of a person being
too good
for this world and in his case being too
good
meant that he never came to terms with
his dark side
which can be a dangerous thing because
if we cannot recognize
and eventually accept the evil within us
how can we master it carl jung wrote
about this and i quote
unfortunately there can be no doubt that
man is
on the whole less good than he imagines
himself
or wants to be everyone carries a shadow
and the less it is embodied in the
individual's conscious life
the blacker and dancer it is end quote
it's no surprise that walter is
constantly at war with himself
and as a consequence with his
environment his old persona
and his emerging shadow seem difficult
if not impossible to reconcile
as they are extremes the humble silent
docile man on one end and the greedy
angry and violent one on the other
unfortunately the latter extreme has
taken over
his unconscious is controlling him from
behind the curtain
walter white has become a slave to his
autonomous
shadow the inability to accept
is the reason why we create dense
shadows
but it's no surprise that we've got a
hard time accepting who we are
in general people are quick to condemn
us for traits that
aren't desirable these traits don't even
have to be evil
like a certain creative interest or
certain preferences
things that aren't harmful at all but
could be faced with harsh criticism
from our environment jung noticed that
by condemning another person
for behavior that we consider
unacceptable or thoughts that we find
offensive or ideas
that we think are extreme we
subsequently condemn ourselves
as we're all humans and we all contain
the seeds of immorality
we see for example people that fight
against oppression of all sorts and
claim to fight for justice
but this is often done in ways that are
based on strong condemnations
which actually makes them oppressive and
unjust
take the character hank schrader for
example who justifies the dehumanization
of criminals
comparing them to cockroaches and
whatnot
by taking such a stance hank doesn't do
humanity justice either
as criminals are still humans and his
brother-in-law
walter white proves that even within a
saint
heights a monster as jung stated
condemnation does not liberate it
oppresses
i'm the oppressor of the person i
condemn not his friend
and fellow sufferer if we condemn
ourselves for having a dark side
we don't just oppress ourselves we also
deny
our humanity and thus the inner civil
war
proceeds as we refuse to acknowledge
what's part of
us the contents of the shadow will not
disappear
through repression on the contrary it
will
revolt from a union perspective
in order to help a patient a doctor must
approach
this person with unprejudiced
objectivity a doctor cannot help a
patient
if he cannot accept him regardless of
his own morals and values
and we can only accept another person if
we can accept ourselves first
because only through acceptance we can
acknowledge the totality of our being
and know that the evil within us is also
within everyone else
we ourselves are the enemy we despise
hence love thy enemy also means love
thyself as we shouldn't condemn an
animal for being hostile
we shouldn't condemn a human being for
doing the same thing
even when it's irrational denying one's
humanity will get us
nowhere according to young the idea of
self-acceptance is
easy to comprehend but difficult to
execute
i quote no doubt this also sounds very
simple
in reality however the acceptance of the
shadow side of human nature
verges on the impossible consider for a
moment
what it means to grant the right of
existence
to what is unreasonable senseless and
evil
end quote in order to accept ourselves
we must know who we are but even though
we cannot consciously
access our dark side and the vast
majority of our psyche
is beyond our reach there are ways to
integrate repressed parts of ourselves
into our conscious personalities
according to young
in cases like walter white and the
narrator in fight club
it means that extreme opposites need to
be acknowledged
and reconciled because what's considered
good
has kept evil evil so in order for that
to stop
evil must be turned into good
we could compare this to removing the
dam between two areas of water
so the water will naturally and
effortlessly find its level
in union psychology this process is
called shadow work
in which practitioners learn to remove
barriers that keep
parts of themselves from flowing
naturally into the light of
consciousness
when we make the unconscious conscious
and give what we've condemned into the
shadow
permission to exist only then what jung
calls the conversion into the opposite
can take place it is this he states
that makes possible the reunion of the
warring halves of the personality
and thereby brings the civil war to an
end
end quote if you want to gain more
insight into your shadow self
my friend emerald from the diamond net
has created a free
shadow integration master class called
the six
simple steps to shadow integration this
free resource
gives you everything you need to know to
start your own shadow work
practice today be sure to click the
affiliate link in the description box or
comment section to watch
the free training also if you enjoy the
free masterclass
and want further guidance she offers a
one-on-one 13-week shadow integration
program
and you can get a 10 discount when you
enroll in that program
by entering the promo code shadow at
checkout
please note because it's a one-on-one
program there are limited spots
available
i've done a live coaching session and
tarot reading with emerald myself
and these were awesome and very
insightful experiences
thank you for watching
[Music]
you